---
layout: post
title:  "Evo Morales and Álvaro García resign from the presidency and vice presidency"
date:   2019-11-10 16:34:25
categories: news
tags: 
author: José
featured-img: nov2019/renunciaEvo
---
## Evo Morales resigned from the presidency of Bolivia after having lost control of the country and the support of the Police and the Armed Forces, Morales had reached the presidency in January 2006.

The now former president faced a wave of protests after October 20 2019, elections he stood for re-election for the third time, Morales won 47% of the vote in the elections, but the opponents did not accept his victory in the first round, they called for mobilizations.

Over the days the protest became a revolt of the wealthy sectors that took the institutions and paralyzed the center of the cities.

The electoral court's desprolijidades aroused suspicion of fraud and sure of having won asked the Organization of American States (OAS) to audit these results. That organization presented a preliminary report according to which, although it recognizes the possibility that Morales has won the elections, he says he cannot validate that he has won with the necessary difference to be declared president in the first round, reason why he recommended the call for new elections with a new Electoral Court.

The protests turned violent and racist aggressions followed against Morales's supporters. Among the attacks the opponents set fire to the homes of ministers, mayors and other officials of the ruling party and even took hostages to pressure the resignation of ministers.

“I am resigning for (so) our brother leaders are not persecuted. I am very sorry for this civic coup. I want to tell you brothers and sisters the fight does not end here. We will continue this fight for equality and peace” Morales said in a recorded message.

### Vice President Resignation


<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4IbdGiPsqXA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


García Linera also resigned his position with a television message. "In the following hours I will also send my resignation letter to the Legislative Assembly," he said.

According to the Constitution, the vice president must take office when the president resigns, but as the successor resigned, then must be the president of the Senate.

According to article 169 of the Constitution “in case of impediment or permanent absence of the President or the President of the State, it will be replaced or replaced in office by the Vice President or Vice President and, in the absence of this or this, by the President or the President of the Senate, and in the absence of this or this one by the President or the President of the Chamber of Deputies. In the latter case, new elections will be called within a maximum period of ninety days. ”

Currently, the president of the Senate is Adriana Salvatierra from Santa Cruz who can become the youngest president in the history of Bolivia. She just turned 30 years old on June.


The source: [BolPress-spanish][bolpress]{:target="_blank"}

[bolpress]:  https://www.bolpress.com/2019/11/10/evo-morales-renuncia-a-la-presidencia/

