---
layout: post
title:  "How Human Rights Watch Whitewashed a Right-Wing Massacre in Bolivia"
date:   2019-11-20 10:00 
categories: news
author: José
featured-img: nov2019/howHumanRightsWatch
---
## While some may be surprised by its response to the Bolivia crisis, Human Rights Watch’s support for a U.S.-backed right-wing coup is no aberration.
### by Alan Macleod 

Bolivia is currently in turmoil after President Evo Morales was deposed in a
U.S.-supported coup d’état on November 10. The new coup government forced
Morales into exile, began arresting politicians and journalists while
pre-exonerating security services of all crimes committed during the
“re-establishment of order,” effectively giving them a license to kill all
resistance to their rule. Dozens have died and massacres of indigenous
protesters have occurred in the city of Cochabamba and the small town of
Senkata.

In confusing and alarming situations such as these, millions of people around
the world look to international human rights organizations for leadership and
guidance. However, far from standing up for the oppressed, Human Rights Watch
has effectively endorsed the events. In its official communiqué, it refrained
from using the word coup, insisting Morales “resigned”, its Americas Director
José Miguel Vivanco claiming the President stepped down “after weeks of civil
unrest and violent clashes” and does not even mention opposition violence
against his party or the role of the military in demanding, at gunpoint, that he
resign. Therefore, Morales mysteriously “traveled to Mexico,” in the
organization’s words, rather than fleeing there to escape arrest. Instead, it
tacitly endorses the new government, advising it to “prioritize rights.”

Human Rights Watch Director Kenneth Roth went further, presenting the elected
head of state fleeing the country at gunpoint as a refreshing step forward for
democracy, claiming that Morales was “the casualty of a counter-revolution aimed
at defending democracy…against electoral fraud and his own illegal candidacy,”
noting that Morales had ordered the army to shoot protesters. 



Continue reading from the source: [Mint Press News][mpn]{:target="_blank"}

[mpn]: https://www.mintpressnews.com/human-rights-watch-right-wing-massacre-bolivia/262887/
