---
layout: post
title:  "COVID-19 crisis: Bolivia’s Movement Towards Socialism says #PutLivesFirst"
date:   2020-04-24
categories: news
author: José
featured-img: apr2020/covid19-crisis
---
## [Federico Fuentes][author]{:target="_blank"}

Given the exponentially rising death toll from COVID-19 and the devastating
social and economic effects of brutal lockdowns, what could a humane and
progressive response to the global pandemic look like?

This is what Bolivia’s Movement Towards Socialism (MAS) has sought to outline in
#PutLivesFirst, its detailed and comprehensive plan for tackling COVID-19 and
its social and economic impacts.

The plan was released on April 15 by MAS presidential candidate Luis Arce, a
former minister of economy under President Evo Morales, who was overthrown in a
coup last November. Since then, the country has been ruled by an
unconstitutional “interim” government headed by right-wing coup president
Jeanine Anez.

With Morales forced into exile and barred from running, Arce was selected to run
as the MAS candidate for the May 3 general elections, which have now been
postponed due to the pandemic. The postponement is just one of a range of
repressive measures that have accompanied the Anez government’s nationwide
lockdown that began on March 22.

## Multiple crises


#PutLivesFirst notes that COVID-19 “has put at risk not only the health and
lives of millions of people around the world, but also the economy and social
coexistence”. It warns that “the world today is experiencing an intensification
of the multiple crises of capitalism, which could unleash an unprecedented
humanitarian catastrophe”.


Acknowledging that no country was fully prepared to confront the pandemic, it
says the huge deficiencies in the Anez government’s plans for the preparatory
and containment phases of the pandemic “have greatly complicated the management
of the phase we are in today, meaning the projections for cases and deaths are
frightening.

“Unfortunately, the actions announced to date are clearly not part of any integral plan, and continue to be late, inefficient, discriminatory, improvised and very weak.

“In declaring a nationwide lockdown, it was necessary to come up with and present a package of measures to alleviate the economic and social effects it would have on all sectors, especially the most vulnerable.

“It is inconceivable, even inhuman, that after more than 20 days of lockdown, economic support for the people who need it most had not been announced ... and [the recently announced support measures] will only begin to reach people on April 30.

“How are those Bolivians who find themselves among the hardest hit by the crisis meant to survive, without income or food for more than a month?”

Faced with this reality, the MAS plan puts forward concrete emergency proposals, elaborated in consultation with social movements, health professionals and economic sectors.

These measures cover 14 areas: emergency healthcare; supply chains; social policy; economic recovery; community solidarity; human rights and freedom of speech; justice; international policy; protection for vulnerable sectors; youth; Mother Earth; culture; media; and transparency and access to information.

## Meeting urgent needs


In the area of health, the MAS proposes incorporating the private healthcare
sector into any national plan to combat COVID-19. This would extend to private
laboratories, which are to be brought under state control to provide their
services free of charge.



Continue reading from the source: [Green Left][the]{:target="_blank"}

[the]: https://www.greenleft.org.au/content/covid-19-bolivia-movement-towards-socialism-putlivesfirst 

[author]: https://www.greenleft.org.au/glw-authors/federico-fuentes
